docs/self-hosting/server-database/dokploy.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy LobeChat with database on Dokploy
description: >-
  Learn how to deploy LobeChat with database on Dokploy with ease, including: database, authentication and S3 storage service.

tags:
  - Deploy LobeChat
  - Vercel Deployment
  - OpenAI API Key
  - Custom Domain Binding
---

# Deploying Server Database Version on Dokploy.

This article will detail how to deploy the server database version of LobeChat.

## 1. Preparation Work

### Deploy Dokploy and configure related settings.

```shell
curl -sSL https://dokploy.com/install.sh | sh
```

1. Connect your GitHub to Dokploy in the Settings / Git section according to the prompt.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c75eb19e-e0f5-4135-91e4-55be8be8a996)

2. Enter the Projects interface to create a Project.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e04928d-0171-48d1-afff-e22fc2faaf4e)

### Configure S3 Storage Service

In the server-side database, we need to configure the S3 storage service to store files. For detailed configuration instructions, please refer to the section [Configure S3 Storage Service](https://lobehub.com/docs/self-hosting/server-database/vercel#3-configure-s-3-storage-service) in the Vercel deployment guide。After the configuration is complete, you will obtain the following environment variables:

```shell
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
S3_ENDPOINT=
S3_BUCKET=
S3_PUBLIC_DOMAIN=
S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=
```

### Configure the Clerk authentication service.

Obtain the three environment variables: `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`, `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`, and `CLERK_WEBHOOK_SECRET`. For detailed configuration steps for Clerk, please refer to the section [Configure Authentication Service](https://lobehub.com/docs/self-hosting/server-database/vercel#2-configure-authentication-service) in the Vercel deployment guide.

```shell
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_xxxxxxxxxxx
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLERK_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

## 2. Deploying the database on Dokploy

Enter the previously created Project, click on Create Service, and select Database. In the Database interface, choose PostgreSQL, then set the database name, user, and password. In the Docker image field, enter `pgvector/pgvector:pg17`, and finally click Create to create the database.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/97899819-278f-42fd-804a-144d521d4b4f)

Enter the created database and set an unused port in External Credentials to allow external access; otherwise, LobeChat will not be able to connect to the database. You can view the Postgres database connection URL in External Host, as shown below:

```shell
postgresql://postgres:wAbLxfXSwkxxxxxx@45.577.281.48:5432/postgres
```

Finally, click Deploy to deploy the database.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b4e89dd4-877b-43fe-aa42-4680de17ba8e)

## Deploy LobeChat on Dokploy.

Click "Create Service", select "Application", and create the LobeChat application.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4cbbbcce-36be-48ff-bb0b-31607a0bba5c)

Enter the created LobeChat application, select the forked lobe-chat project and branch, and click Save to save.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2bb4c09d-75bb-4c46-bb2f-faf538308305)

Switch to the Environment section, fill in the environment variables, and click Save.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f79c266-cce5-4936-aabd-4c8f19196d91)

```shell
# Environment variables required for building
NIXPACKS_PKGS="bun"
NIXPACKS_INSTALL_CMD="pnpm install"
NIXPACKS_BUILD_CMD="NODE_OPTIONS='--max-old-space-size=8192' pnpm run build"
NIXPACKS_START_CMD="pnpm start"

APP_URL=

# Set the service mode to server
NEXT_PUBLIC_SERVICE_MODE=server

# Configuration related to Postgres database
DATABASE_DRIVER=node
DATABASE_URL=

# You can use openssl rand -base64 32 to generate a random 32-character string as a key.
KEY_VAULTS_SECRET=

# Clerk related configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=
CLERK_WEBHOOK_SECRET=

# S3 related configuration
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
S3_ENDPOINT=
S3_BUCKET=
S3_PUBLIC_DOMAIN=
S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=

# OpenAI related configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=
OPENAI_MODEL_LIST=
OPENAI_PROXY_URL=
```

After adding the environment variables and saving, click Deploy to initiate the deployment. You can check the deployment progress and log information under Deployments.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/411e2002-61f0-4010-9841-18e88ca895ec)

After a successful deployment, bind your own domain to your LobeChat application and request a certificate on the Domains page.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dd6bc4a4-3c20-4162-87fd-5cac57e5d7e7)

## Check if LobeChat is working properly.

Go to your LobeChat website, and if you click on the login button in the upper left corner and the login pop-up appears normally, it means you have configured it successfully. Enjoy it to the fullest!

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/798ddb18-50c7-462a-a083-0c6841351d26)

Commit message:

📝 docs: update Better Auth documentation (#11679)

docs/self-hosting/server-database/dokploy.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy LobeChat with database on Dokploy
description: >-
  Learn how to deploy LobeChat with database on Dokploy with ease, including:
  database, authentication and S3 storage service.
tags:
  - Deploy LobeChat
  - Dokploy Deployment
  - Better Auth
  - S3 Storage
---

# Deploying Server Database Version on Dokploy.

This article will detail how to deploy the server database version of LobeChat.

## 1. Preparation Work

### Deploy Dokploy and configure related settings.

```shell
curl -sSL https://dokploy.com/install.sh | sh
```

1. Connect your GitHub to Dokploy in the Settings / Git section according to the prompt.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c75eb19e-e0f5-4135-91e4-55be8be8a996)

2. Enter the Projects interface to create a Project.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e04928d-0171-48d1-afff-e22fc2faaf4e)

### Configure S3 Storage Service

In the server-side database, we need to configure the S3 storage service to store files. For detailed configuration instructions, please refer to the section [Configure S3 Storage Service](https://lobehub.com/docs/self-hosting/server-database/vercel#3-configure-s-3-storage-service) in the Vercel deployment guide。After the configuration is complete, you will obtain the following environment variables:

```shell
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
S3_ENDPOINT=
S3_BUCKET=
S3_PUBLIC_DOMAIN=
S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=
```

### Configure KEY_VAULTS_SECRET Environment Variable

`KEY_VAULTS_SECRET` is used to encrypt sensitive information such as API keys stored by users. Click the button below to generate:

<GenerateSecret envName="KEY_VAULTS_SECRET" />

### Configure authentication environment variables

Prepare the following authentication environment variables (powered by [Better Auth](https://www.better-auth.com)):

Click the button below to generate `AUTH_SECRET` (session encryption key):

<GenerateSecret envName="AUTH_SECRET" />

You also need to configure the `JWKS_KEY` environment variable for signing and verifying JWTs. Click the button below to generate:

<GenerateJWKSKey />

<Callout type={'info'}>
  For advanced features like SSO providers, magic link login, and email verification, see [Authentication Service](/docs/self-hosting/advanced/auth).
</Callout>

## 2. Deploying the database on Dokploy

Enter the previously created Project, click on Create Service, and select Database. In the Database interface, choose PostgreSQL, then set the database name, user, and password. In the Docker image field, enter `pgvector/pgvector:pg17`, and finally click Create to create the database.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/97899819-278f-42fd-804a-144d521d4b4f)

Enter the created database and set an unused port in External Credentials to allow external access; otherwise, LobeChat will not be able to connect to the database. You can view the Postgres database connection URL in External Host, as shown below:

```shell
postgresql://postgres:wAbLxfXSwkxxxxxx@45.577.281.48:5432/postgres
```

Finally, click Deploy to deploy the database.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b4e89dd4-877b-43fe-aa42-4680de17ba8e)

## Deploy LobeChat on Dokploy.

Click "Create Service", select "Application", and create the LobeChat application.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4cbbbcce-36be-48ff-bb0b-31607a0bba5c)

Enter the created LobeChat application, select the forked lobe-chat project and branch, and click Save to save.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2bb4c09d-75bb-4c46-bb2f-faf538308305)

Switch to the Environment section, fill in the environment variables, and click Save.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f79c266-cce5-4936-aabd-4c8f19196d91)

```shell
# Environment variables required for building
NIXPACKS_PKGS="bun"
NIXPACKS_INSTALL_CMD="pnpm install"
NIXPACKS_BUILD_CMD="NODE_OPTIONS='--max-old-space-size=8192' pnpm run build"
NIXPACKS_START_CMD="pnpm start"

APP_URL=

# Configuration related to Postgres database
DATABASE_DRIVER=node
DATABASE_URL=

# Use the values generated above
KEY_VAULTS_SECRET=
AUTH_SECRET=
JWKS_KEY=

# S3 related configuration
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
S3_ENDPOINT=
S3_BUCKET=
S3_PUBLIC_DOMAIN=
S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=

```

After adding the environment variables and saving, click Deploy to initiate the deployment. You can check the deployment progress and log information under Deployments.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/411e2002-61f0-4010-9841-18e88ca895ec)

After a successful deployment, bind your own domain to your LobeChat application and request a certificate on the Domains page.

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dd6bc4a4-3c20-4162-87fd-5cac57e5d7e7)

## Check if LobeChat is working properly.

Go to your LobeChat website, and if you click on the login button in the upper left corner and the login pop-up appears normally, it means you have configured it successfully. Enjoy it to the fullest!

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/798ddb18-50c7-462a-a083-0c6841351d26)
