docs/self-hosting/environment-variables/auth.mdx, before:

---
title: LobeChat Authentication Service Environment Variables
description: >-
  Explore the essential environment variables for configuring authentication services in LobeChat, including Better Auth, OAuth SSO, NextAuth settings, and provider-specific details.


tags:
  - Authentication Service
  - Better Auth
  - OAuth SSO
  - Clerk
  - NextAuth
---

# Authentication Service

LobeChat provides a complete authentication service capability when deployed. The following are the relevant environment variables. You can use these environment variables to easily define the identity verification services that need to be enabled in LobeChat.

## Better Auth

### General Settings

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_BETTER_AUTH`

- Type: Required
- Description: Set to `1` to enable Better Auth service. When enabled, Better Auth will be used for authentication instead of Next Auth or Clerk.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `1`

#### `AUTH_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Key used to encrypt session tokens. Shared between Better Auth and Next Auth. You can generate the key using the command: `openssl rand -base64 32`.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Tfhi2t2pelSMEA8eaV61KaqPNEndFFdMIxDaJnS1CUI=`

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTH_URL`

- Type: Optional
- Description: The URL accessible from the browser for Better Auth callbacks. Only set this if the default generated URL is incorrect.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.com`

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTH_EMAIL_VERIFICATION`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Set to `1` to require email verification before users can sign in. Users must verify their email address after registration.
- Default: `0`
- Example: `1`

#### `AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Comma-separated list of enabled SSO providers. The order determines the display order of providers on the login page.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `google,github,microsoft,cognito`

### Email Service (SMTP)

These settings are required for email verification and password reset features.

#### `SMTP_HOST`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP server hostname.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `smtp.gmail.com`

#### `SMTP_PORT`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP server port. Usually `587` for TLS or `465` for SSL.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `587`

#### `SMTP_SECURE`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Use secure connection. Set to `true` for port 465 (SSL), `false` for port 587 (TLS).
- Default: `false`
- Example: `false`

#### `SMTP_USER`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP authentication username, usually your email address.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `your-email@example.com`

#### `SMTP_PASS`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP authentication password. For Gmail, use an app-specific password.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `your-app-specific-password`

### Google

#### `AUTH_GOOGLE_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Google OAuth application. Get it from [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `123456789.apps.googleusercontent.com`

#### `AUTH_GOOGLE_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Google OAuth application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `GOCSPX-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### GitHub

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the GitHub OAuth application. Get it from [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Ov23xxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the GitHub OAuth application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### Microsoft

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) application. Get it from [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### AWS Cognito

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the AWS Cognito User Pool App Client. Get it from [AWS Cognito Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the AWS Cognito App Client.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Cognito User Pool issuer URL. Format: `https://cognito-idp.{region}.amazonaws.com/{userPoolId}`
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://cognito-idp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/us-east-1_xxxxxxxxx`

### Feishu

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the Feishu application. Get it from [Feishu Open Platform](https://open.feishu.cn/app).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `cli_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### WeChat

#### `AUTH_WECHAT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the WeChat Open Platform application. Get it from [WeChat Open Platform](https://open.weixin.qq.com/).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_WECHAT_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the WeChat application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

<Callout type={'info'}>
  For other OIDC-based providers (Auth0, Authelia, Authentik, Casdoor, Cloudflare Zero Trust, Keycloak, Logto, Okta, ZITADEL, Generic OIDC), the environment variables follow the same pattern as Next Auth. See the [Next Auth section](#next-auth) below for details.
</Callout>

## Next Auth

### General Settings

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_NEXT_AUTH`

- Changes after v1.52.0.

- For users who deploy with Vercel using Next Auth, it is necessary to add the environment variable NEXT\_PUBLIC\_ENABLE\_NEXT\_AUTH=1 to ensure that Next Auth is enabled.

- For users who use Clerk in their self-built image, it is necessary to configure the environment variable NEXT\_PUBLIC\_ENABLE\_NEXT\_AUTH=0 to disable Next Auth.\n

- Other standard deployment scenarios (using Clerk on Vercel and next-auth in Docker) are not affected

#### `NEXT_AUTH_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Key used to encrypt the session tokens in Auth.js. You can generate the key using the following command: `openssl rand -base64 32`.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Tfhi2t2pelSMEA8eaV61KaqPNEndFFdMIxDaJnS1CUI=`

#### `NEXT_AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Select the single sign-on provider for LoboChat. For multiple SSO Providers separating them with commas, for example, `auth0,microsoft-entra-id,authentik`.
- Default: `auth0`
- Example: `auth0,microsoft-entra-id,authentik`

#### `NEXTAUTH_URL`

- Type: Optional
- Description: This URL is used to specify the callback address for Auth.js during OAuth authentication. It does not need to be set when deploying on Vercel.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.com/api/auth`

### Auth0

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Auth0 application. You can access it [here](https://manage.auth0.com/dashboard) and navigate to the application settings to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `evCnOJP1UX8FMnXR9Xkj5t0NyFn5p70P`

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Auth0 application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wnX7UbZg85ZUzF6ioxPLnJVEQa1Elbs7aqBUSF16xleBS5AdkVfASS49-fQIC8Rm`

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer/domain of the Auth0 application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.auth0.com`

### Authelia

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Authelia provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `lobe-chat`

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Authelia provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `insecure_secret`

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Authelia provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://sso.example.com`

### Authentik

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `evCnOJP1UX8FMnXR9Xkj5t0NyFn5p70P`

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wnX7UbZg85ZUzF6ioxPLnJVEQa1Elbs7aqBUSF16xleBS5AdkVfASS49-fQIC8Rm`

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer/domain of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-authentik-domain.com/application/o/slug/`

### Casdoor

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `570bfa85a21800a25198`

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Plaintext Client Secret provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `233a623a15eac2db2e43bb8a323eda729552c405`

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: OpenID Connect issuer provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://lobe-auth-api.example.com/`

### Cloudflare Zero Trust

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `711963a58df8c943cfd6c487cac99ce9f6ee0c88c0b7bf94584b8ff052fcb09c`

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `8f26d4ef834a828045b401e032ae128dbb00471bca53f0d25332323f525dfa30`

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/sso/oidc/711963a58df8c943cfd6c487cac99ce9f6ee0c88c0b7bf94584b8ff052fcb09c`

### Github

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Github application. You can access it [here](https://github.com/settings/apps) and navigate to the application settings to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `abd94200333283550508`

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Github application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `dd262976ac0931d947e104891586a053f3d3750b`

### Logto

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Client ID of the Logto application. You can find it in the Logto console for private deployment or [Logto Cloud](http://cloud.logto.io/) depending on the deployment mode.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `123456789012345678@your-project`

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Client Secret of the Logto application.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `9QF1n5ATzU7Z3mHp2Iw4gKX8kY6oR7uW1DnKcV3LqX2jF6iG3fBmJ1kV7nS5zE6A`

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: The OpenID Connect issuer of the Logto application. You can find it in the Logto console for private deployment or [Logto Cloud](http://cloud.logto.io/) depending on the deployment mode.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `https://lobe-auth-api.example.com/oidc`

### Microsoft Entra ID

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_BASE_URL`

- Type: Required
- Description: - Description: Base URL for Azure login. Use when authenticating against other Microsoft sovereignty clouds like Azure US Government.
- Default: `https://login.microsoftonline.com`
- Example: `https://login.microsoftonline.us`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `be8f6da1-58c3-4f16-ff1b-78f5148e10df`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `~gI8Q.pTiN1vwB6Gl.E1yFT1ojcXABkdACfJXaNj`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `c8ae2f36-edf6-4cda-96b9-d3e198a47cba`

### ZITADEL

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the ZITADEL application. This can be found under your application in the ZITADEL console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `123456789012345678@your-project`

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the ZITADEL application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `9QF1n5ATzU7Z3mHp2Iw4gKX8kY6oR7uW1DnKcV3LqX2jF6iG3fBmJ1kV7nS5zE6A`

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the ZITADEL application. This is usually the URL of the ZITADEL instance, and can be found in `URLs` tab of your application in the console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-instance-abc123.zitadel.cloud`

### Okta

#### `AUTH_OKTA_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Okta application. This can be found under your application settings in the Okta console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `ac12c950f3ce48c8a45a`

#### `AUTH_OKTA_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Okta application. This can be found under your application settings in the Okta console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `ex1HqvSOOkC5INqo42grOSqNvHoD4p84em1yy5QU7v88IZlaWGywFjYkrkpkSopt`

#### `AUTH_OKTA_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Okta application. This is the URL of the Okta instance -- If branding is set up, it can be your custom domain.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-instance.okta.com`

### Feishu

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `cli_9f7b1e1e1e1e1e1e`

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `AlHxxX1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e`

### Generic OIDC

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Generic OIDC provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `_client_id_for_lobe_chat_`

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Generic OIDC provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `_client_secret_for_lobe_chat_`

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Generic OIDC provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://sso.example.com`

<Callout>
  Currently, we only support providers above. If you need to use other identity verification service
  providers, you can submit a [feature
  request](https://github.com/lobehub/lobe-chat/issues/new/choose) or Pull Request.
</Callout>

## Clerk

### `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`

- Type: Required
- Description: Publishable key of the Clerk application. You can access it [here](https://dashboard.clerk.com) and navigate to the API Keys to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `pk_test_Zmxvd4luZy1wdW1hLTIyLmNsXXJrTmFjY291bnRzLmRldiQ` in dev / `pk_live_Y2xlcdsubG9iZWh1Yi1cbmMuY24k` in production

### `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`

- Type: Required
- Description: Secret key of the Clerk application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `sk_test_513Ma0P7IAWM1XMv4waxZjRYRajWTaCfJLjpEO3SD2` in dev / `sk_live_eMMlHjwJvZFUfczFljSKqZdwQtLvmczmsJSNmdrpeZ` in production

Commit message:

🔒 security: replace KEY_VAULTS_SECRET with JWT signing for async router auth
- Add JWKS_KEY env variable with fallback to OIDC_JWKS_KEY
- Add signInternalJWT() and validateInternalJWT() in internalJwt.ts
- Use short-lived JWT (3s) with purpose claim to authenticate lambda → async calls
- Remove KEY_VAULTS_SECRET from Authorization header transmission
- Update OIDC provider to use JWKS_KEY from authEnv
- Update documentation for JWKS_KEY and desktop sync

docs/self-hosting/environment-variables/auth.mdx, after:

---
title: LobeChat Authentication Service Environment Variables
description: >-
  Explore the essential environment variables for configuring authentication services in LobeChat, including Better Auth, OAuth SSO, NextAuth settings, and provider-specific details.


tags:
  - Authentication Service
  - Better Auth
  - OAuth SSO
  - Clerk
  - NextAuth
---

# Authentication Service

LobeChat provides a complete authentication service capability when deployed. The following are the relevant environment variables. You can use these environment variables to easily define the identity verification services that need to be enabled in LobeChat.

## Better Auth

### General Settings

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_BETTER_AUTH`

- Type: Required
- Description: Set to `1` to enable Better Auth service. When enabled, Better Auth will be used for authentication instead of Next Auth or Clerk.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `1`

#### `AUTH_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Key used to encrypt session tokens. Shared between Better Auth and Next Auth. You can generate the key using the command: `openssl rand -base64 32`.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Tfhi2t2pelSMEA8eaV61KaqPNEndFFdMIxDaJnS1CUI=`

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTH_URL`

- Type: Optional
- Description: The URL accessible from the browser for Better Auth callbacks. Only set this if the default generated URL is incorrect.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.com`

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTH_EMAIL_VERIFICATION`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Set to `1` to require email verification before users can sign in. Users must verify their email address after registration.
- Default: `0`
- Example: `1`

#### `AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Comma-separated list of enabled SSO providers. The order determines the display order of providers on the login page.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `google,github,microsoft,cognito`

#### `JWKS_KEY`

- Type: Required
- Description: Generic JWKS (JSON Web Key Set) key for signing and verifying JWTs. Used for internal service authentication and other cryptographic operations. Must be a JWKS JSON string containing an RS256 RSA key pair. Falls back to `OIDC_JWKS_KEY` if not set (for backward compatibility).
- Default: `-`

<OIDCJWKs />

### Email Service (SMTP)

These settings are required for email verification and password reset features.

#### `SMTP_HOST`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP server hostname.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `smtp.gmail.com`

#### `SMTP_PORT`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP server port. Usually `587` for TLS or `465` for SSL.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `587`

#### `SMTP_SECURE`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Use secure connection. Set to `true` for port 465 (SSL), `false` for port 587 (TLS).
- Default: `false`
- Example: `false`

#### `SMTP_USER`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP authentication username, usually your email address.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `your-email@example.com`

#### `SMTP_PASS`

- Type: Required (for email features)
- Description: SMTP authentication password. For Gmail, use an app-specific password.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `your-app-specific-password`

### Google

#### `AUTH_GOOGLE_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Google OAuth application. Get it from [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `123456789.apps.googleusercontent.com`

#### `AUTH_GOOGLE_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Google OAuth application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `GOCSPX-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### GitHub

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the GitHub OAuth application. Get it from [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Ov23xxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the GitHub OAuth application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### Microsoft

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) application. Get it from [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### AWS Cognito

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the AWS Cognito User Pool App Client. Get it from [AWS Cognito Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cognito).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the AWS Cognito App Client.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_COGNITO_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Cognito User Pool issuer URL. Format: `https://cognito-idp.{region}.amazonaws.com/{userPoolId}`
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://cognito-idp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/us-east-1_xxxxxxxxx`

### Feishu

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the Feishu application. Get it from [Feishu Open Platform](https://open.feishu.cn/app).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `cli_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

### WeChat

#### `AUTH_WECHAT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the WeChat Open Platform application. Get it from [WeChat Open Platform](https://open.weixin.qq.com/).
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

#### `AUTH_WECHAT_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the WeChat application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

<Callout type={'info'}>
  For other OIDC-based providers (Auth0, Authelia, Authentik, Casdoor, Cloudflare Zero Trust, Keycloak, Logto, Okta, ZITADEL, Generic OIDC), the environment variables follow the same pattern as Next Auth. See the [Next Auth section](#next-auth) below for details.
</Callout>

## Next Auth

### General Settings

#### `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_NEXT_AUTH`

- Changes after v1.52.0.

- For users who deploy with Vercel using Next Auth, it is necessary to add the environment variable NEXT\_PUBLIC\_ENABLE\_NEXT\_AUTH=1 to ensure that Next Auth is enabled.

- For users who use Clerk in their self-built image, it is necessary to configure the environment variable NEXT\_PUBLIC\_ENABLE\_NEXT\_AUTH=0 to disable Next Auth.\n

- Other standard deployment scenarios (using Clerk on Vercel and next-auth in Docker) are not affected

#### `NEXT_AUTH_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Key used to encrypt the session tokens in Auth.js. You can generate the key using the following command: `openssl rand -base64 32`.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `Tfhi2t2pelSMEA8eaV61KaqPNEndFFdMIxDaJnS1CUI=`

#### `NEXT_AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`

- Type: Optional
- Description: Select the single sign-on provider for LoboChat. For multiple SSO Providers separating them with commas, for example, `auth0,microsoft-entra-id,authentik`.
- Default: `auth0`
- Example: `auth0,microsoft-entra-id,authentik`

#### `NEXTAUTH_URL`

- Type: Optional
- Description: This URL is used to specify the callback address for Auth.js during OAuth authentication. It does not need to be set when deploying on Vercel.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.com/api/auth`

### Auth0

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Auth0 application. You can access it [here](https://manage.auth0.com/dashboard) and navigate to the application settings to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `evCnOJP1UX8FMnXR9Xkj5t0NyFn5p70P`

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Auth0 application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wnX7UbZg85ZUzF6ioxPLnJVEQa1Elbs7aqBUSF16xleBS5AdkVfASS49-fQIC8Rm`

#### `AUTH_AUTH0_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer/domain of the Auth0 application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.auth0.com`

### Authelia

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Authelia provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `lobe-chat`

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Authelia provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `insecure_secret`

#### `AUTH_AUTHELIA_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Authelia provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://sso.example.com`

### Authentik

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `evCnOJP1UX8FMnXR9Xkj5t0NyFn5p70P`

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `wnX7UbZg85ZUzF6ioxPLnJVEQa1Elbs7aqBUSF16xleBS5AdkVfASS49-fQIC8Rm`

#### `AUTH_AUTHENTIK_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer/domain of the Authentik provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-authentik-domain.com/application/o/slug/`

### Casdoor

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `570bfa85a21800a25198`

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Plaintext Client Secret provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `233a623a15eac2db2e43bb8a323eda729552c405`

#### `AUTH_CASDOOR_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: OpenID Connect issuer provided by Casdoor
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://lobe-auth-api.example.com/`

### Cloudflare Zero Trust

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `711963a58df8c943cfd6c487cac99ce9f6ee0c88c0b7bf94584b8ff052fcb09c`

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `8f26d4ef834a828045b401e032ae128dbb00471bca53f0d25332323f525dfa30`

#### `AUTH_CLOUDFLARE_ZERO_TRUST_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Cloudflare Zero Trust provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://example.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/sso/oidc/711963a58df8c943cfd6c487cac99ce9f6ee0c88c0b7bf94584b8ff052fcb09c`

### Github

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Github application. You can access it [here](https://github.com/settings/apps) and navigate to the application settings to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `abd94200333283550508`

#### `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Github application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `dd262976ac0931d947e104891586a053f3d3750b`

### Logto

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Client ID of the Logto application. You can find it in the Logto console for private deployment or [Logto Cloud](http://cloud.logto.io/) depending on the deployment mode.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `123456789012345678@your-project`

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The Client Secret of the Logto application.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `9QF1n5ATzU7Z3mHp2Iw4gKX8kY6oR7uW1DnKcV3LqX2jF6iG3fBmJ1kV7nS5zE6A`

#### `AUTH_LOGTO_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: The OpenID Connect issuer of the Logto application. You can find it in the Logto console for private deployment or [Logto Cloud](http://cloud.logto.io/) depending on the deployment mode.
- Default value: `-`
- Example: `https://lobe-auth-api.example.com/oidc`

### Microsoft Entra ID

#### `AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_BASE_URL`

- Type: Required
- Description: - Description: Base URL for Azure login. Use when authenticating against other Microsoft sovereignty clouds like Azure US Government.
- Default: `https://login.microsoftonline.com`
- Example: `https://login.microsoftonline.us`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `be8f6da1-58c3-4f16-ff1b-78f5148e10df`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `~gI8Q.pTiN1vwB6Gl.E1yFT1ojcXABkdACfJXaNj`

#### `AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra ID application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `c8ae2f36-edf6-4cda-96b9-d3e198a47cba`

### ZITADEL

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the ZITADEL application. This can be found under your application in the ZITADEL console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `123456789012345678@your-project`

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the ZITADEL application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `9QF1n5ATzU7Z3mHp2Iw4gKX8kY6oR7uW1DnKcV3LqX2jF6iG3fBmJ1kV7nS5zE6A`

#### `AUTH_ZITADEL_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the ZITADEL application. This is usually the URL of the ZITADEL instance, and can be found in `URLs` tab of your application in the console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-instance-abc123.zitadel.cloud`

### Okta

#### `AUTH_OKTA_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Okta application. This can be found under your application settings in the Okta console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `ac12c950f3ce48c8a45a`

#### `AUTH_OKTA_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client Secret of the Okta application. This can be found under your application settings in the Okta console.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `ex1HqvSOOkC5INqo42grOSqNvHoD4p84em1yy5QU7v88IZlaWGywFjYkrkpkSopt`

#### `AUTH_OKTA_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Okta application. This is the URL of the Okta instance -- If branding is set up, it can be your custom domain.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://your-instance.okta.com`

### Feishu

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: App ID of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `cli_9f7b1e1e1e1e1e1e`

#### `AUTH_FEISHU_APP_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: App Secret of the Feishu application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `AlHxxX1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e1e`

### Generic OIDC

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_ID`

- Type: Required
- Description: Client ID of the Generic OIDC provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `_client_id_for_lobe_chat_`

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_SECRET`

- Type: Required
- Description: The plaintext of the Client Secret for the Generic OIDC provider
- Default: `-`
- Example: `_client_secret_for_lobe_chat_`

#### `AUTH_GENERIC_OIDC_ISSUER`

- Type: Required
- Description: Issuer of the Generic OIDC provider application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `https://sso.example.com`

<Callout>
  Currently, we only support providers above. If you need to use other identity verification service
  providers, you can submit a [feature
  request](https://github.com/lobehub/lobe-chat/issues/new/choose) or Pull Request.
</Callout>

## Clerk

### `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`

- Type: Required
- Description: Publishable key of the Clerk application. You can access it [here](https://dashboard.clerk.com) and navigate to the API Keys to view.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `pk_test_Zmxvd4luZy1wdW1hLTIyLmNsXXJrTmFjY291bnRzLmRldiQ` in dev / `pk_live_Y2xlcdsubG9iZWh1Yi1cbmMuY24k` in production

### `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`

- Type: Required
- Description: Secret key of the Clerk application.
- Default: `-`
- Example: `sk_test_513Ma0P7IAWM1XMv4waxZjRYRajWTaCfJLjpEO3SD2` in dev / `sk_live_eMMlHjwJvZFUfczFljSKqZdwQtLvmczmsJSNmdrpeZ` in production
