docs/self-hosting/advanced/auth/providers/casdoor.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuring Casdoor Authentication for LobeChat
description: >-
  Learn how to configure Casdoor SSO for LobeChat, including creating an
  application and setting up environment variables.
tags:
  - Casdoor
  - Authentication
  - LobeChat
  - Single Sign-On
  - OIDC
---

# Configuring Casdoor Authentication

[Casdoor](https://casdoor.org/) is an open-source Identity Access Management (IAM) platform with web UI for SSO.

<Steps>
  ### Create Application in Casdoor

  1. Log in to your Casdoor admin console
  2. Go to **Applications** and click **Add**
  3. Configure the application:
     - Name: `LobeChat`
     - Organization: Select your organization
     - Redirect URLs: Add your callback URL

  <Callout type={'info'}>
    **Callback URL Format**: `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/casdoor`
  </Callout>

  4. Save and note down the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**

  ### Get Issuer URL

  The issuer URL is your Casdoor server URL, typically: `https://your-casdoor-domain`

  ### Configure Environment Variables

  When deploying LobeChat, you need to configure the following environment variables:

  | Environment Variable             | Type     | Description                                                                   |
  | -------------------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `AUTH_SECRET`                    | Required | Key used to encrypt session tokens. Generate using: `openssl rand -base64 32` |
  | `AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`             | Required | SSO provider for LobeChat. Use `casdoor` for Casdoor                          |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_ID`                | Required | Client ID from Casdoor application                                            |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_SECRET`            | Required | Client Secret from Casdoor application                                        |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_ISSUER`            | Required | Casdoor server URL (e.g., `https://your-casdoor-domain`)                      |

  <Callout type={'tip'}>
    Go to [📘 Environment Variables](/docs/self-hosting/environment-variables/auth#casdoor) for detailed information on these variables.
  </Callout>
</Steps>

<Callout type={'info'}>
  After successful deployment, users will be able to authenticate with Casdoor and use LobeChat.
</Callout>

## Related Resources

- [Casdoor Documentation](https://casdoor.org/docs/overview)
- [Casdoor Application Configuration](https://casdoor.org/docs/application/config)

Commit message:

📝 docs(auth): add email_not_found FAQ and webhook configuration (#11782)
- Add email_not_found troubleshooting to NextAuth migration docs
- Emphasize Better Auth requires user email for authentication
- Add CASDOOR_WEBHOOK_SECRET and webhook setup to Casdoor provider docs
- Add LOGTO_WEBHOOK_SIGNING_KEY and webhook setup to Logto provider docs

docs/self-hosting/advanced/auth/providers/casdoor.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuring Casdoor Authentication for LobeChat
description: >-
  Learn how to configure Casdoor SSO for LobeChat, including creating an
  application and setting up environment variables.
tags:
  - Casdoor
  - Authentication
  - LobeChat
  - Single Sign-On
  - OIDC
---

# Configuring Casdoor Authentication

[Casdoor](https://casdoor.org/) is an open-source Identity Access Management (IAM) platform with web UI for SSO.

<Steps>
  ### Create Application in Casdoor

  1. Log in to your Casdoor admin console
  2. Go to **Applications** and click **Add**
  3. Configure the application:
     - Name: `LobeChat`
     - Organization: Select your organization
     - Redirect URLs: Add your callback URL

  <Callout type={'info'}>
    **Callback URL Format**: `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/casdoor`
  </Callout>

  4. Save and note down the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**

  ### Get Issuer URL

  The issuer URL is your Casdoor server URL, typically: `https://your-casdoor-domain`

  ### Configure Environment Variables

  When deploying LobeChat, you need to configure the following environment variables:

  | Environment Variable     | Type     | Description                                                                   |
  | ------------------------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `AUTH_SECRET`            | Required | Key used to encrypt session tokens. Generate using: `openssl rand -base64 32` |
  | `AUTH_SSO_PROVIDERS`     | Required | SSO provider for LobeChat. Use `casdoor` for Casdoor                          |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_ID`        | Required | Client ID from Casdoor application                                            |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_SECRET`    | Required | Client Secret from Casdoor application                                        |
  | `AUTH_CASDOOR_ISSUER`    | Required | Casdoor server URL (e.g., `https://your-casdoor-domain`)                      |
  | `CASDOOR_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | Optional | Secret key for validating Webhook requests from Casdoor                       |

  <Callout type={'tip'}>
    Go to [📘 Environment Variables](/docs/self-hosting/environment-variables/auth#casdoor) for detailed information on these variables.
  </Callout>

  ### Configure Webhook (Optional)

  > Available in Casdoor `>=1.843.0`.

  Configure Casdoor Webhook to sync user data updates to LobeChat.

  1. Go to **Admin Tools** -> **Webhooks** and create a Webhook
  2. Fill in the following fields:
     - URL: `https://your-domain.com/api/webhooks/casdoor`
     - Method: `POST`
     - Content Type: `application/json`
     - Headers: `casdoor-secret`: `your-webhook-secret`
     - Events: `update-user`
  3. Generate a secret at [generate-secret.vercel.app/10](https://generate-secret.vercel.app/10)
  4. Set the secret in the `CASDOOR_WEBHOOK_SECRET` environment variable
</Steps>

<Callout type={'info'}>
  After successful deployment, users will be able to authenticate with Casdoor and use LobeChat.
</Callout>

## Related Resources

- [Casdoor Documentation](https://casdoor.org/docs/overview)
- [Casdoor Application Configuration](https://casdoor.org/docs/application/config)
